From Marianne Vestergaard
July 2005

When you use these UV iron templates then you are kindly asked (as is common
practice in the astronomy community) to include the following in the papers 
which result or benefit from the use of the templates:

1. Please reference Vestergaard & Wilkes 2001, ApJS, 134, 1
2. Please acknowledge receipt of the templates in the acknowledgements

Also, until further notice, please do not distribute these templates to others,
but please contact Marianne Vestergaard (mvestergaard@as.arizona.edu). 

Details on the templates:
The UV iron templates are offered in two standard versions, from both of which the
strong FeII UV191 and FeIII UV47 are eliminated (see Vestergaard & Wilkes 2001). 
These multiplets are provided separately to allow the user to include either or 
both as necessary. The two standard versions of the FeII+FeIII templates has two 
approximations of the FeIII UV34 multiplets: one (Fe_UVtemplt_B) contains the 
residual UV34 from fitting the CIII] and SiIII] emission lines in the 1900A 
complex (see the paper).  In the other version (Fe_UVtemplt_A) the FeIII UV34 
contribution has been eliminated as best possible to allow an inclusion of the 
UV34 model B2 (the most realistic of the models; note these models are not too 
well constrained; see discussion in paper) if desired.  The user will have to 
decide which multiplets to include and which version of the UV34 multiplet 
contribution to use.  The choice depends on the application and the appearance 
of the iron emission spectrum in the observed AGN spectrum to be fitted and 
subtracted. 
	The paper describes how to obtain broadened templates to the desired 
final line width; the line width cannot reliably be measured from the 
(broadened) blended template.

Also, please observe that owing to the non-simultaneous observations of the
three FOS grating spectra the most blueward grating spectrum G130H may need
to be rescaled differently from the rest of the spectrum (see discussion in
the paper and in Vestergaard & Peterson 2005, ApJ, 625, 688. )

ReadMe            : This file
Fe_UVtemplt_A.asc : FeII+FeIII template without FeII UV191, FeIII UV34, and
		    FeIII UV47 multiplets
Fe_UVtemplt_B.asc : FeII+FeIII template without FeII UV191 and FeIII UV47 multiplets,
		    but with FeIII UV34 left in as the `residuals' from fitting
		    the non-Fe emission lines in this region.
Fe2_UV191.asc     : The fit to the FeII UV191 multiplet
Fe3_UV47.asc      : The fit to the FeIII UV47 multiplet
Fe3UV34modelB2.asc: The model B2 (discussed in Vestergaard & Wilkes 2001) to the
		     FeIII UV34 multiplet.

If you have questions, or need a template with only FeII or FeIII emission,
please contact Marianne Vestergaard (mvestergaard@as.arizona.edu)
Reprints of Vestergaard & Wilkes (2001) can also be obtained from MV. Just send
her your mailing address.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
